# Holiday Lights Controller

Uploaded by Bigglez on 2007-12-14 19:24:00 (rating 0 out of 5)

## Summary

AVR ATmega168 based controller PCB with RTC and AC power supply to control up to four 8-channel AC load IO PCBs over an I2C bus. Total system of five cards fits in a NEMA outdoor box. Each channel can be dimmed or turned on and off. The system is self-contained, does not require a PC connection (except during AVR programming) and does not offer music sync or features found on more costly commercial lighting controllers. This project was featured on the cover of the November issue of Nuts and Volts magazine.


Controller PCB: The Controller also includes a two digit seven segment LED and rotary encoder (with switch) for user programming of the RTC clock and show start and stop times. An optional 16 x 1 LCD shows the clock time, start and stop times and other data for system set up. An EEPROM on the I2C bus can be preprogrammed with sequences, or the fixed patterns generated by the uC code. The use of random timing and random seeds in the patterns removes the 'mechanical effect' of some low end commercial lighting controllers. The Controller PCB is protected by its own 5Amp fuse, and has additional AC terminals to allow easy wiring of the IO cards. The I2C bus and 5V power are daisy-chained through the IO cards with ribbon cables.


IO PCB: Each IO PCB is protected by a 5Amp fuse, and has monitor LEDs for each channel. IO cards use a three position DIP switch to set the I2C base address.

## Compilers

- BASCOM-AVR

## Tags

- Complete code with HW
- BASCOM-AVR
