.TH "DRIVER_STRUCT" 3 "20 Mar 2010" "Version R3" "FunkOS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
DRIVER_STRUCT \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <driver.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR * \fBszName\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIName for the driver (optional). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_STATE\fP \fBeState\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDriver state (i.e. active/uninit/open). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_TYPE\fP \fBeType\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDriver type info (used for specialization). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_CONSTRUCTOR\fP \fBpfConstructor\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to constructor function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_START\fP \fBpfDriverStart\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to driver start function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_STOP\fP \fBpfDriverStop\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to driver stop function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_CONTROL\fP \fBpfControl\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to driver event function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_READ\fP \fBpfDriverRead\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to driver 'read' function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDRIVER_WRITE\fP \fBpfDriverWrite\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to driver 'write' function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMUTEX_STRUCT\fP \fBstMutex\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIResource protection mutex. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "BOOL \fBbUseMutex\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIWhether or not to use the resource protection. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "BOOL \fBbUseMutex\fP"
.PP
Whether or not to use the resource protection. 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_STATE\fP \fBeState\fP"
.PP
Driver state (i.e. active/uninit/open). 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_TYPE\fP \fBeType\fP"
.PP
Driver type info (used for specialization). 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_CONSTRUCTOR\fP \fBpfConstructor\fP"
.PP
Pointer to constructor function. 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_CONTROL\fP \fBpfControl\fP"
.PP
Pointer to driver event function. 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_READ\fP \fBpfDriverRead\fP"
.PP
Pointer to driver 'read' function. 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_START\fP \fBpfDriverStart\fP"
.PP
Pointer to driver start function. 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_STOP\fP \fBpfDriverStop\fP"
.PP
Pointer to driver stop function. 
.SS "\fBDRIVER_WRITE\fP \fBpfDriverWrite\fP"
.PP
Pointer to driver 'write' function. 
.SS "\fBMUTEX_STRUCT\fP \fBstMutex\fP"
.PP
Resource protection mutex. 
.SS "UCHAR* \fBszName\fP"
.PP
Name for the driver (optional). 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for FunkOS from the source code.
