.TH "FONT_STRUCT" 3 "20 Mar 2010" "Version R3" "FunkOS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
FONT_STRUCT \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <font.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "CHAR * \fBszFontName\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIName of the font (i.e. windows TTF name). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucSize\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISize of the font (i.e. windows TTF font size). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucFlags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFont properties (Bold, italic, underline, etc.). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucFontWidth\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIWidth of the font characters in pixels (max of the whole font). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucFontHeight\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIHeight of the font characters in pixels (max of the whole font). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucStartChar\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStarting character (ASCII char index). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucNumChars\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINumber of chars. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "const FONT_RAW_TYPE * \fBpucCharData\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to characters used in the font. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "const FONT_RAW_TYPE* \fBpucCharData\fP"
.PP
Pointer to characters used in the font. 
.SS "CHAR* \fBszFontName\fP"
.PP
Name of the font (i.e. windows TTF name). 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucFlags\fP"
.PP
Font properties (Bold, italic, underline, etc.). 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucFontHeight\fP"
.PP
Height of the font characters in pixels (max of the whole font). 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucFontWidth\fP"
.PP
Width of the font characters in pixels (max of the whole font). 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucNumChars\fP"
.PP
Number of chars. 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucSize\fP"
.PP
Size of the font (i.e. windows TTF font size). 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucStartChar\fP"
.PP
Starting character (ASCII char index). 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for FunkOS from the source code.
