.TH "C:/Projects/R3/config/kernelcfg.h" 3 "20 Mar 2010" "Version R3" "FunkOS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
C:/Projects/R3/config/kernelcfg.h \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_STACK_DEBUG\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include kernel stack measurement. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_INTEGRITY_CHECK\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include task integrity checks (TCB corruption). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_SEMAPHORE\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include the use of built-in kernel semaphores. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_MUTEX\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include the use of built-in kernel mutex for resource protection. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_QUANTUM\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include the use of task quantum functionality. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_WDT\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include the built-in watchdog timer modules. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_TIMERS\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include the kernel-managed timer functions. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_HEAP\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include the FunkOS dynamic memory module. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_USE_MESSAGE\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fISet to 1 to include message queues. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBKERNEL_NESTED_TICK\fP   1"
.br
.RI "\fIEnable nested interrupts for Lightweight Threads and RTOS Tick. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBTICK_FREQ\fP   1000"
.br
.RI "\fIFrequency (in Hz) that the system tick is called. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSYSTEM_FREQ\fP   16000000"
.br
.RI "\fISystem frequency (in Hz). \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Description: Kernel configuration module - used for customizing global kernel options at compile-time. For module-specific functionality, see the header file for each individual kernel module. 
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define KERNEL_INTEGRITY_CHECK   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include task integrity checks (TCB corruption). 
.SS "#define KERNEL_NESTED_TICK   1"
.PP
Enable nested interrupts for Lightweight Threads and RTOS Tick. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_STACK_DEBUG   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include kernel stack measurement. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_HEAP   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include the FunkOS dynamic memory module. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_MESSAGE   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include message queues. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_MUTEX   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include the use of built-in kernel mutex for resource protection. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_QUANTUM   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include the use of task quantum functionality. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_SEMAPHORE   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include the use of built-in kernel semaphores. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_TIMERS   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include the kernel-managed timer functions. 
.SS "#define KERNEL_USE_WDT   1"
.PP
Set to 1 to include the built-in watchdog timer modules. 
.SS "#define SYSTEM_FREQ   16000000"
.PP
System frequency (in Hz). 
.SS "#define TICK_FREQ   1000"
.PP
Frequency (in Hz) that the system tick is called. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for FunkOS from the source code.
