.TH "Task_Struct" 3 "20 Mar 2010" "Version R3" "FunkOS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Task_Struct \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <task.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "WORD * \fBpwTopStack\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to current stack top. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "WORD * \fBpwStack\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStack pointer, defined by the task. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "USHORT \fBusStackSize\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISize of the stack in MAU. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "USHORT \fBusStackMargin\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRuntime stack margin. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "BYTE * \fBpacName\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to the name of the task (ASCII). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTASK_FUNC\fP \fBpfTaskFunc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to the entry function. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucPriority\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITask priority. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTASK_STATE\fP \fBeState\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICurrent task state. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "USHORT \fBusTimeLeft\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITicks remaining in blocked/sleep state. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "USHORT \fBusQuantum\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITime to execute task before switching. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "BOOL \fBbTimeout\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIIndicates that an IO operation timed out. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "UCHAR \fBucMutexPriority\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPriority inheritence used by mutex. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBTask_Struct\fP * \fBpstNext\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to the next task (handled by scheduler). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBTask_Struct\fP * \fBpstNextList\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIList pointer provided for Mutex and Semaphore. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "BOOL \fBbTimeout\fP"
.PP
Indicates that an IO operation timed out. 
.SS "\fBTASK_STATE\fP \fBeState\fP"
.PP
Current task state. 
.SS "BYTE* \fBpacName\fP"
.PP
Pointer to the name of the task (ASCII). 
.SS "\fBTASK_FUNC\fP \fBpfTaskFunc\fP"
.PP
Pointer to the entry function. 
.SS "struct \fBTask_Struct\fP* \fBpstNext\fP"
.PP
Pointer to the next task (handled by scheduler). 
.SS "struct \fBTask_Struct\fP* \fBpstNextList\fP"
.PP
List pointer provided for Mutex and Semaphore. 
.SS "WORD* \fBpwStack\fP"
.PP
Stack pointer, defined by the task. 
.SS "WORD* \fBpwTopStack\fP"
.PP
Pointer to current stack top. This is the basic task control block in the RTOS. It contains parameters and state information required for a task, including stack, priority, timeouts, entry funcitons, and task pending semaphore. 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucMutexPriority\fP"
.PP
Priority inheritence used by mutex. 
.SS "UCHAR \fBucPriority\fP"
.PP
Task priority. 
.SS "USHORT \fBusQuantum\fP"
.PP
Time to execute task before switching. 
.SS "USHORT \fBusStackMargin\fP"
.PP
Runtime stack margin. 
.SS "USHORT \fBusStackSize\fP"
.PP
Size of the stack in MAU. 
.SS "USHORT \fBusTimeLeft\fP"
.PP
Ticks remaining in blocked/sleep state. 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for FunkOS from the source code.
